The primary initiative of this project is to use data analysis to predict wine pricing for both winemakers and negociants (a.k.a wine traders). This prediction can come once the tasting experts have released a score, or a score can be predicted which then can help predict price. The prediction analytics will leverage characteristics across different types of wine including red, white, and rosé, and impact both primary and secondary market for wine buyers.There are two major components of the analysis. In the first half, we did text analytics on the Wine Description feature to extract meaningful words and their term and document frequency using TF-IDF. During this process, we did text cleaning such as removing punctuation marks and unifying the cases. We then tokenized each wine description into a bag of words and removed stop words. We then stemmed the cleaned text to keep the meaningful parts. Lastly, we calculated term frequency and inverse document frequency for each meaningful word in the wine description feature. Lastly, We used the TF-IDF matrix as one of the inputs to our prediction model.In the second half of our analysis, we focused on predicting the price of the wine using existing features including Country, Province, Winery, Points (rating) and Variety. In addition to existing features already included in the dataset, we did feature engineering. Firstly, we created a feature called grape type. This feature segregated each wine product into three categories: Red Wine, White Wine and Rosé based on each wine’s variety. We also extracted information about the year from the Title feature. Based on our research on the wine industry, we believe the year of production plays a big role in determining the wine price. Lastly, we added the TF-IDF created from the wine description feature in the first step as one of the model inputs to improve the model predictability. After the feature selection, we decided to use a random forest regressor to predict the price because we have lots of categorical variables that work well when encoded as dummies, which will cause a high dimensionality. In the encoding process, we found there are too many subcategories for features like Winery and Variety, most of which are not indicative of price or rating. So we ended up using the top 10 most expensive wineries and the top 10 most common varieties as our model inputs. After training the model using the Random Forest Regressor, we printed out Mean Squared Error, Root Mean Squared Error, Mean Absolute Error and R Squared for the test dataset (30%). We also computed the feature importance score and visualized the 10 most influential features for wine pricing. Finally, to expand the usability of our model, we would like to provide a remedy when points (rating) of the wine is not available when predicting the price. We believe the features selected for price prediction are also highly associated with points (rating). We then built a prediction model for points (rating) using the same explanatory variables excluding the price. We plotted the same evaluation metrics and the top 10 most important features using Random Forest Regressor for the points (rating) prediction. 

